UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSIONS  
1. General  
The Institute is open to all persons who are academically qualified for admission to the programs of study 
offered by the Institute and no such person shall be denied the privileges of the Institute on the grounds 
only of sex, religion, color, creed, race,  class or domicile.  
The admission to the Institute is strictly on the basis of merit determined by its own admission test and 
earlier academic achievements. There are no special quotas, reserved seats or admission by donations nor 
any arbitrary age limit for the applicants although preference is given to fresh graduates.  
2. Undergraduate Admissions  
Admission to the Bachelor Programs of the Institute is decided on the basis of candidate's earlier educational 
achievements and his score in the admission tes t, which comprises multiple choice questions based on 
Pakistani intermediate level Physics and Mathematics. Since medium of instruction of the Institute is 
English, students are also assessed for their English language skills. A sample of such questions is  available 
on institute website. The test is held simultaneously at Islamabad, Karachi, Lahore, Multan, Peshawar,  
Quetta  and oversease . The venue and general instructions for the test are intimated online along with the 
Admit Cards. The results of the admission test are communicated to all successful candidates online. A 
former student of the Institute whose enrolment was cancelled due to unsatisfactory academic performance 
is also allowed to reapp ear in the admission test. If selected, she/he will be enrolled in the first semester as 
a freshman. Any student who is currently on the rolls of the Institute and wants to change the faculty is 
allowed to reappear in the admission test. If selected, she/h e may not be given any credits for the courses 
passed earlier.  
a.  Basic Eligibility for Engineering & Computer Science Programs  
Candidates for admission must meet one of the following criteria:  
1. HSSC (Pre -Engineering i.e. Mathematics, Physics and Chemis try) with 60% or above marks 
each in Mathematics, Physics & Overall.  
2. HSSC (Pre -Medical) with Additional Mathematics and 60% or above marks in Mathematics, 
Physics & Overall.  
3. A-Levels in three subjects Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry with D or above gr ade each in 
Mathematics & Physics and O -level in eight subjects (English, Mathematics, Physics, 
Chemistry, Biology/Computer Science, Urdu, Islamic Studies & Pakistan Studies) for local 
applicants and in five subjects (English, Mathematics, Physics, Chemist ry, Biology/Computer 
Science) for those applying from abroad with 60% or above overall marks as per IBCC 
equivalence formula.  
4. American or Canadian High School Diploma or International Baccalaureate Diploma with 
Mathematics (with Calculus), Physics and Che mistry with 60% or above marks, as per IBCC 
equivalence formula, in Mathematics, Physics & Overall.  
5. B.Sc. (Mathematics & Physics) with 60% or above marks in Mathematics, Physics & Overall.  
6. Three years Diploma of Associate Engineering (DAE) in relevant te chnology from a Pakistani 
Board of Technical Education with at least 60% marks in Mathematics, Physics & Overall.  
Notes:  
I. Applicants with Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry background can apply for all programs 
including Computer Science or Computer Engineering  
II. Applicants with Computer Science/Computer Studies background instead of Chemistry at their 
HSSC or A -Level can only  apply for Computer Engineering or Computer Science.  
b.  Basic Eligibility for BS Management Sciences Program  
Candidates for Admission must one of the following criteria:  
1. HSSC (Pre -Engineering), HSSC (General Science), HSSC (ICS), HSSC (Pre -Medical), HS SC 
(Humanities) with at least 60% marks.  
2. A-Level in three subjects with two D's or above grades and O -Level in eight subjects for local 
applicants and in five subjects for those applying from abroad with overall 60% or above 
equivalence as per IBCC formul a.  
3. American or Canadian High School Diploma or International Baccalaureate Diploma with 
overall 60% or above marks, as per IBCC equivalence formula.  
c.  Comparative Assessment Criteria (Merit List)  
 Table 3.1:  Comparative Assessment Criteria (Merit Lis t)  
Score in Admission Test OR SAT -II (in Mathematics and Physics for 
Engineering , Artificial Intelligence  and Computer Science Programs 
and in any two subjects for Management Sciences Program .  85%  
SSC/ O-level  (for Those with A -level and O -level background) / 
Equivalent  15%  
Last completed qualification for High School diploma, IB diploma or 
B.Sc. or DAE  15%  
  
Candidates, who have completed one of the above qualifications and are awaiting results, may apply for 
provisional admission. Confirmation of admission will, however, be subject to the submission of results by 
the date specified in the offer letter and ful fillment of the above criteria.  
Candidates are advised to carefully read the above eligibility criteria before applying for an admission. The 
Candidates are responsible for fulfilling eligibility and must immediately contact the admission office if 
they a re rendered ineligible upon declaration of results. The admission of ineligible candidates, upon 
request, can be deferred for a maximum of one year. It is mandatory for all applicants with O -level and A -
level background to submit equivalence certificates f rom IBCC.  
d.  Application Procedure  
Admissions are managed by the Admissions & Examinations Office during undergraduate admissions 
period under the supervision of Director (Admission &). The admission process starts by mid April each 
year and ends by mid August. Advertisements are placed in prominent national newspapers of the country.  
Admission process is Online. Only Online Applications will be accepted. Complete instructions will be 
available on the link http://admissions.giki.edu.pk by the end of April each year. The tentative applicatio n 
procedure is as below:  
1. Register yourself as Candidate for Admission on the above link  
2. Fill in and submit online admission form  
3. Arrange to pay in any branch of HBL as per amount printed on bank challan.  
4. Receive Prospectus from GIK Institute  
5. Appear in admission test at designated Test Center. Bring along Admit Card, Paid Bank 
Challan and SSC or O -Level certificate.  
6. Check your res ult and proceed as per online instruction.  
e.  Admission Requirements:  
1) Must submit online admission form complete in all respects.  
2) If appearing in the 2nd part of HSSC/A -Levels/Equivalent this year, applicant can apply for 
provisional admission. The con firmation of admission will be subject to fulfillment of 
eligibility criteria upon declaration of HSSC part II or A -Level results.     
3) An Undertaking Certificate is given at the end of the online admission form. You are required 
to read it carefully before  signing. It must also be endorsed by your Father/Guardian.  
f.  Overseas Applicants  
Overseas applicants may take the Scholastic Aptitude Test II (SAT -II) in Physics and Mathematics (Math 
IIC) in place of the Institute’s Admission test  OR Computer based exam  (online test)  of GIK Institute . The 
applicant must choose one criterion for their admission i.e. admission test or SAT II, and the optio n once 
exercised cannot be changed. The candidate filing two separate applications on different basis of admission 
are liable to be disqualified.  
g.  Admission Offer  
Students can also check their admission status online by logging-in into their accounts  at GIK Admission 
portal . The allotment of faculties/programs is made strictly o n merit basis and in order of choices given by 
candidates on their admission applications. However, a candidate may be offered admission in a different 
faculty/program of his/her choice if vacant seats are created by non -acceptance of admission offers by o ther 
candidates.  
  
  
h.  Provisional Admission  
Candidates, who have completed one of the above qualifications and are awaiting result, may apply for 
provisional admission. The confirmation of admission will, however, be subject to submission of result by  
the specified date.  
Applicants who are provisionally admitted must ensure that their results are received in the Admission 
Office by the specified date mentioned in their admission offer; otherwise they will cease to exist on the 
rolls of the Institute. Additionally, those provisionally admitted who fail to meet the eligibility criteria on 
the basis of result submitted to admission office, are taken off the roll the Institute. However,  requests for 
refund of fee will be processed as pe r polic y for refund of tuition fee .  
i.  Admission with Advan ced Standing  
A person who has been enrolled for a relevant Bachelor degree program in engineering at some PEC 
accredited and HEC recognized institution and has earned 15 or more transferable credits hours with a 
minimum CGPA of 2.5 on the scale of 4.0, ma y apply to this Institute for admission with advanced standing. 
However, the student at the GIK Institute, to qualify for a bachelor degree, must earn a minimum of 70 
credits including 6 credit of senior design project. An applicant for transfer from a loc al or foreign 
institution is required to have passed the Institute’s admission test or SAT -II (Overseas Applicant), 
respectively, by securing equal/more marks than the minimum merit of the faculty in which he/she seeks 
admission. However acceptance of requ est for transfer will depend on availability of seat, and the quality 
of academic work already completed by the applicant. For supplementary information and application form 
please contact the admission office.  
j.  Confirmation of Seat.  
Confirmation of seat in the allocated program will be subject to payment of tuition fee and other dues by 
the dead line mentioned in the offer letters, submission of medical certificate of fitness from the medical 
center of GIK Institute, and an undertaking by the student and his/her  father/guardian to abide by the rules 
and regulations framed by the Institute from time to time.  
k.  Deferred Admission  
In some circumstances, an admission offer may be deferred to a subsequent year if situation warrants that. 
The detailed policy for Deferment of Undergraduate Admission available  with Admission Office.  
